Autodisco AWS use case in Getting Started (#901)
centreon/centreon-documentation: en/getting-started/autodisco-aws.md

---
id: autodisco-aws
title: Discover resources automatically
---

In this tutorial, we will use the [Auto Discovery module](../monitoring/discovery/hosts-discovery.html) to detect AWS EC2 instances and monitor them.

## Prerequisites

You must have the credentials to the AWS group of instances you want to monitor (Name, AWS Acces Key and AWS Secret Key), and the region your AWS instances are in.

## Step 1: Installing the Amazon EC2 plugin

> 

Reviewer: I am not a fan of putting several sentences inside parentheses :-)

> 1. Make sure your [license](../administration/licenses.html) is installed. (The Auto Discovery module requires a valid license. It is included in the free [IT-100](IT100.html) license.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Auto Discovery module requires a valid license. Make sure your [commercial](../administration/licenses.html) or [IT-100](IT100.html) license is installed.
```

2. [Install](../monitoring/discovery/installation.html) the autodiscovery module.

3. Make the Plugin Packs available:

    - If you have an offline licence, in your terminal, enter:
     
        ```shell
        yum install centreon-pack-*
        ```

    - If you have an online license, the Plugin Packs are already available in the interface.

4. To install the Amazon EC2 Plugin Pack, go to **Configuration > Plugin Packs**.

5. In the **Keyword** field, type **Amazon EC2** and then click **Search**.

> 6. Click on the `+` sign in the top right corner of the Plugin Pack. The Plugin Pack now has a green border and a tick mark in the top right corner. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click on the `+` sign in the top right corner of the Plugin Pack. The Plugin Pack now has a green border and a tick mark in the top right corner: it is now installed!
```

7. Follow [this procedure](../integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-ec2.html) (sections [Plugin dependencies](../integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-ec2.html#plugin-dependencies) and [Setup](../integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-aws-ec2.html#setup)) to finish installing the Plugin Pack. (You can also access the documentation for a Plugin Pack by clicking on the `i`.)

    ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws-doc.png)

## Step 2: Configure the discovery job

3. Go to **Configuration > Hosts > Discovery**, and then click **Add**.

4. Enter a name for your discovery job, and then select the **Amazon AWS EC2** provider. Click **Next**.

> 

Reviewer: The image below is not displayed in the jenkins preview because of the CAPS "PNG" in the filename

>     ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws_provider.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws_provider.PNG)
```

Reviewer: Or, what would be best: rename the file aws-provider.png and adapt the reference here

4. If your infrastructure requires it, fill in the details for the proxy you want to use.

5. Click on the `+` sign to the right of the **Choose credentials** list. Fill in the Name, AWS Acces Key and AWS Secret Key fields, then click on **Confirm**. Click **Next**.

6. Enter the region your EC2 instances are in (for example, **eu-north-1**). Click **Next**.

7. Edit or add [mappers](../monitoring/discovery/hosts-discovery.html#how-to-use-mappers):
    - Map `host.name` to the `discovery.results.name` attribute. The names of your hosts in Centreon will be the ones defined in this attribute (i.e. the hostname of the instance).
    - In our example, we will exclude the instances whose hostname contains "test".

    ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws-mapper.png)

    Click **Next**.

8. Select **Manual analysis**: we will have to add the hosts to the list of monitored hosts manually. Click **Next**.

9. Select **Execute immediately** and then click **Finish**. The discovery job appears in the list of jobs.
    

>     ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws-listofjobs.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws-listofjobs.PNG)
```

## Step 3: Saving the hosts and monitoring them

10. After a few seconds, refresh the page. There should be a green tick mark in the **Status** column.

>     ![image](../assets/getting-started/aws-success.png)

Reviewer: Why not a screenshot with the mouse over the job's row in order to make the "Display job result" arrow appear in the document?

> 11. Hover over the green tick mark and then click **Display the job result** (the arrow icon). A list of hosts appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. Hover over the row of the job that has just ended and then click **Display the job result** (the arrow icon). A list of hosts appears.
```
